oh okay I'm looking oh great
yep don't mind me don't mind me hi
everybody I'm back for another video
today I thought I'd go through which I
write my personal statement and go
through a kind of draft I wrote and I
compare it to my finished thing and how
I made tweaks to it so hopefully this
will be useful if you're just making
final adjustments or even if you haven't
started I'll go through why included
I'll put both my draft in my final
personal statement in the description
below so you can follow along with the
video don't take me as an expert I feel
like as far as personal statements go
mine isn't the best you'll come across I
might make you feel better about yours
cuz you're there's probably way better
than mine so I'm here for everyone I'm
just kind of saying what I did in case
it might be helpful so yeah let's get
started some of the parts my personal
statement make me really cringe so I'm
really sorry if it makes you cringe too
especially my first draft it is it's
full of things you should never put in a
personal statement but I just did not
know that at that stage so forgive the
past me for my mistakes because I was
applying for Natural Sciences I wanted
to make sure that I spoke about physics
chemistry and maths cuz all the courses
I was applying for contained all three
of those subjects I know it'd be
different for other people because not
everyone's going to apply for such a
broad degree as I was so opening
paragraph I know lots people stress
about this I think how the hell am I
going to start my personal statement I
thought so too in the end I didn't come
up with anything that amazing so feel
good about that you see I've done okay
with a pretty crappy opening so don't
stress over it too much I put as a
naturally inquisitive person I am
intrigued by scientific research and
development now I did not have that
originally I had science is inevitably
my calling in life cringe cringe cringe
oh my god so all those cringe you know
what they called cliche lines that you
really do not want to include like
anyone could write that so tell them
anything about you about your passion
for the subject I think not
does not make you stand out whatsoever
to the admissions tutors they'll just
think bye-bye in my first draft at the
end of my first paragraph I per lessons
always leave me with questions about the
mechanics of the world and encourage
wider thinking which I consider to be
the best way to educate myself now I
ended up changing that because I was
writing about educating myself and I
thought will they like that the fact
that I'm thinking of gonna educate
myself because I'm going to the Uni to
be taught like they're not gonna want
people who think they know better than
them I miss being really nitpicky but
you've got to be like that with personal
statements so in the end I changed it to
I wanted to be able to answer these
questions that kind of left it open as
to they're going to be teaching me but
also I'm gonna be independent I'm gonna
take responsibility for my own learning
but I'm gonna learn from them if you get
me so my first paragraph you might
notice was originally two sentences I
increased it to three so I wanted to
make it a bit more of an opening I kind
of elaborated on my interest saying that
physics and chemistry were my favorite
subjects backed by an affinity for pure
mathematics I mean that's true who knows
you notice like up the always you will
notice between my draft my final thing I
have cut out the odd word try to shorten
my character count to try and fit the
limit my second paragraph I wrote about
astrophysics cuz I felt like
astrophysics was quite important it's
probably the area of science I'm
interested in in most at the moment so
it got prime position in the personal
statement
originally I started the paragraph with
I am interested in astrophysics I later
changed it to astrophysics really
interests me this was just because I
didn't want too many paragraphs starting
with I I just wanted to change up a bit
I then went on to say that is exciting
to think that life may exist in
extraterrestrial locations basically
aliens so I put originally I strongly
believe in aliens anyway I had someone
from college read over my personal
statement and they were like
say that cuz what you were wrong people
might disagree with you you don't want
to risk having your personal statement
read by someone who really doesn't
believe that and they think this girl is
such a closed mindset that she already
thinks she knows everything without even
doing the degree and Aliens clearly do
exist according to her I've got to leave
it open I changed it to it's exciting to
think because it kind of conveys that
I'm really excited about the fact that
aliens might exist but I know there's a
chance they might not and they clearly
know better than me don't get me wrong
aliens exist just saying definitely in
other areas of the universe there are
gonna be other living creatures that we
just haven't discovered yet like they're
not just a science fiction thing Trust
trust me on this one wait for it give me
10 years I've discovered them all right
then wrote about a lecture I went to on
the Rosetta space mission it was at a
university near to where I live it was
one of those open lectures were any
members of the public can come along and
sit and watch so I went along to it made
notes on it it was interesting I went in
my AAS year I went because I was
interested in astrophysics and I thought
oh hey this might link to it I specified
some of the things I learned in the
lecture don't just say oh I went to a
lecture without specifying what you
gained from it I wrote about for example
the comments layered onion-like
structure at the end of my astrophysics
paragraph I originally had I cannot wait
to be the person making the scientific
breakthroughs I changed this I was told
when giving my personal stamp to someone
else to read their that's our a bit
big-headed and that I should be like
I'll be one of the people making the
scientific discoveries I shouldn't like
to my own horn too much like I'm going
to be the next Isaac Newton I'm gonna be
the next Albert Einstein I'm going to
make greatest discoveries woohoo like
don't put that so while it's very good
to beat yourself up in your personal
statement be like you're the best you're
amazing pick me for this degree also
like turn it down like don't go too far
I went on to talk about chemistry in my
third paragraph in my final personal
statement I specified parts of the
chemistry a level syllabus that I liked
for example over about spectroscopy I
quite liked in chemistry a level piecing
together different parts of the puzzle
to identify the molecule I quite enjoyed
that although it really was tough at
some times although in my final exam I
identified the molecule guys so all that
animal practice paid off don't forget
that it's more than acceptable to write
about bits and you're a little
syllabuses that interest you like don't
well it's good to do things like you
know above and beyond the specification
it's it's good to like specify things
that you just learned about normally
that you're really interested in and
write about why you're interested in it
and you know maybe you want to look into
it further you're excited about doing it
at degree level now originally in my
first draft or one of my earlier drafts
I did put in about how I liked the
naming system I think it's I don't know
how you say if you say it like oh you
pack I say are you pack but I'm pretty
sure it's I you PA see which is the
naming system of molecules in chemistry
if you know I was like investigating
possible exceptions which was true I
found it really interesting I don't know
why I had a bit of an obsession with it
in my first year but then I gave my
personal statement to a chemistry
teacher at my college and they were like
to be honest the higher level chemists
don't really care about it that much and
it's not like you could include much
better material but not in your personal
statement I know it shouldn't be like
this but you kind of got to think who's
reading my personal statement are they
gonna be interested in that and she was
like probably not you guys know that I
was interested in the naming of
molecules I then wrote about chemistry
enrichment sessions which is an example
of a super curricular activity which
Oxbridge like you to write about in your
personal statement super curricular is
basically extracurriculars that relate
to your subject so my college Rani's
chemistry
which meant sessions I went on a trip to
a local university and we got to use
some of the lab equipment they're some
of the fancier stuff that they don't
have in colleges I specified some of the
equipment I used I also used to have in
this paragraph and my initial draft my
passion for chemistry was confirmed the
word passionate I was told when I went
to a personal statement kind of guidance
talk a local uni they said avoid the
word passionate and words like that I
think just because a lot of people use
it they'll read for like 10 personal
statements one after the other and it'll
go I'm so passionate about chemistry I'm
so passionate about chemistry and I'll
be so bored and you really won't stick
out kind of useless words isn't it ly I
think it goes without saying when you
apply for a course you've got a passion
for the course like my passion for
chemistry was confirmed that's such a
throwaway line that could be filled with
so much more like better staff and your
personal statement let's not mess about
you do have a restricted limit to the
number of characters you can have so
don't waste those characters are in kind
of cliches or was that everyone's gonna
use that don't really mean much really I
did use up the character limit by the
way you can have up to 4,000 according
to what I had 3958
although I think I had more than that
because I definitely went up to the
maximum like bar a couple of characters
so I think the you cast character system
is slightly different to words so if
you're working on your personal
statement and you want to check your
characters there are things online or
maybe they link one down below it's just
like a you cast character count site so
it will count the characters as you cast
does when doing a person statement so
you can check of it all fit because it
counts it's like different word I don't
know how characters can be counted
differently but apparently they can I
would always advise using up all your
characters or close to it because other
people will and if you've only written
like a half night and personal statement
other people will have crammed in so
much more stuff that might impress the
admissions tutors rather than you so
another thing worth mentioning is the
Cambridge sack
which is the supplementary admissions
questionnaire this is just specific to
Cambridge but they have an extra
admissions questionnaire which you can
write another like mini personal
statement just for Cambridge so if
you're applying for a different course
elsewhere then you can write a personal
statement that's more specific like why
you want to go to Cambridge specifically
and why their course is perfect for you
I didn't use it because I was applying
for Natural Sciences everywhere so I
felt like I said everything I needed to
in my personal statement but it might be
useful to some people and then I ended
my chemistry paragraph by writing about
the Cambridge chemistry challenge now
I'm sure a lot of people will have done
things like Olympiads in whatever
subject you're doing or things like the
Cambridge Chemistry challenge and yeah
it's good to write about those in your
personal statement but make sure you
write what you gain from them it's no
good just saying oh got a gold award in
the Cambridge chemistry challenge or ooh
I got a gold award in the maths Olympiad
there's no good saying that when you
haven't kind of said what you got from
it to be like I did the math Olympiad
and I learned about perseverance when
faced with challenging maths problems
whoo-hoo whenever you write something
your personal statement ask yourself
what did I get from it and write it in
the next sentence so yeah I ended up
saying it was a lesson in developing
resilience and resourcefulness needed to
face difficult questions I took out the
part about saying that I was a
perfectionist because I am a
perfectionist but I thought maybe it
will be taken in like a negative way
being a perfectionist isn't always a
good thing as much as it pains me to say
it because I just I love the faction huh
right so originally over the summer
holiday I was supposed to be doing this
thermodynamics online course thing that
they had it was like a few weeks you had
to complete work every week for it
anyway I tried the first week and they
lost me like after the first couple of
like lesson things I had there so I kind
of gave up with that so hence where that
was cut out from the actual thing I've
met I was writing about it before I
completed it but I don't think I'm the
only one guilty of that another thing
about books if you haven't read them
make sure you read them they could ask
you about it at interview if if your
university is interviewing you and a
fair few who needs do interview these
days I had interviews at Cambridge and
Southampton
it depends what subject is for though
like I'm talking for Natural Sciences
but I know for medicine you get
interviewed everywhere with different
Ashley I'm not even gonna talk like I
know about it but okay
interviews are a thing and you might
well be interviewed for a place on a
course so don't lie in your personal
statement because they could ask you
about it in my next paragraph in my
final personal statement I went on to
talk about a material science book I
read called stuff matters bite mark vo
tonic I read it in maybe spring of my is
year I decided to read the book because
I was planning on going on this material
science summer course so I thought it'd
be good preparation and I can read
around the subject and I did think oh
maybe I could write about it in my
personal statement if it interests me so
I specified a chapter in the book that I
really like so if you read a book or you
write an article kind of specify the
bits that really interest you what you
looked into further I originally had I
cannot believe how a material composed
in 99% air can have such useful
properties I change that though I
changed it to it's hard to believe you
know I'm thinking well that sounds
exactly the same but it doesn't because
I cannot believe kind of indicate a like
close mindset I don't want to learn I
think I think I could go on the degree
course go to election I'll be like to
lecture I don't believe you I don't
believe that that's not the message I
wanted to put across I like I still
wants to learn but I was saying it's
hard to believe like wow I couldn't I'm
shocked at the fact that I found out
that the materials composed of 99% air
if you get me I then went on to talk
about a summer school I went on which
was good that was at Cambridge it was
doing material science it was a
head-start summer school if you're
interested I'll link it down below
because applications are open now if you
want to go on that I wrote about what
interested me at the summer school
identified my favorite lecture I went to
I see I said it was fascinating to learn
see I used the word fascinating
I think we did have the word fascinating
like more than once you can on some of
these you cast characters count things I
mentioned before also you can check for
like words repeated more than once so
you can check that you're not saying it
was amazing or amazing the word amazing
like 10 times or five times or even
three times it's maybe a bit excessive
for the word amazing so you can kind of
double check that you haven't repeated
words too many times without having to
read through it because that can take
quite a lot of time I like this bit when
I spoke about this steel screw that I
was looking at on white material science
summer course or the grains of the
sample that is going tiny isn't it tiny
Pacific here I went on to talk about
kind of my outside interests they say
the uks advised proportions is 80%
academic and your subject and 20% of
your personal statement should be about
your extracurricular activities Oxbridge
are obviously different they don't care
about extracurriculars but all other
unions do so still include that in your
personal statement I had quite a short I
only a few one to three sentences in the
end I put about extracurriculars that
were related to my subject in my
personal statement I kind of killed two
birds with one stone if that's the
saying I satisfied the requirement of
other universities to include
extracurricular things on my personal
statement because I'd written about
academic extracurriculars which would
interest Oxbridge and other unies boom I
play in a youth band I play the clarinet
so I spoke about that and then I also
wrote about my part-time job my Saturday
job and I thought I'd kind of put the
skills that I got from it so think about
there's probably a lot of things that
you do you think wouldn't be worth
putting in a personal statement but
often they are if you have extra hobbies
and stuff like that like if you do say
netball for example you've probably
learnt team working skills from playing
in the team they want to know that
you're a well-rounded person
and not just you don't just like read
books for example unless you're going to
Oxbridge they just want people who read
books
so my final personal statement I wrote
about the engineering education
theme in the next paragraph in my draft
this is a paragraph earlier on so you
might need to scroll up see I really
hope you with me right now because I
don't even think I'm with myself
a little bit of background engineering
education scheme there was six of us
from my college we worked with a company
called Mott MacDonald which is like an
engineering company thing and one of
their projects were working on was plans
for a dam in Pakistan and it was
extending it and so we were given this
is our project and we had to do
calculations ourself it was kind of a
taste of what it would be like to be an
engineer and so it was designed to kind
of introduce people to engineering and
for people to see if engineering is
something they might want to go into at
the time I was considering engineering
as a degree I did the engineering
education scheme I decided afterwards
that engineering was not for me but no
it was actually really fun and obviously
I wrote about it in my personal
statement it wasn't so much related to
my well okay it kind of related to my
subjects I suppose it's big physics
maths etc and engineering but I put it
in more for the facts it was
extracurricular and I knew Arthur
universities I'd apply to other than
Cambridge would be interested in that
okay so ending your personal statement I
feel my ending pretty much the same as
my beginning was pretty crap I'm not
gonna lie this is what I put so I
finished off I originally had a separate
paragraph but I could only think of like
two sentences and I could only fit two
sentences actually to be honest within
my character dinner so I just kind of
tacked it onto the end of my engineering
education scheme paragraph I put I
didn't want to limit myself to one
specific field at this stage of my
education which is true see it's a bit
of a cop-out to be honest my ending I'm
not even you can read it but I don't
know I wasn't completely satisfied I
just gave up after a while I was like
this will do send it off the stress of
the application is too much so I hope
this video has been helpful and you can
kind of take some tips from mine or even
if you're just interested to see what
I've wrote and how I came from
my draft my final thing and what I
included then here you go good luck with
writing your personal statements and
good luck with your university
applications I'm sure you'll do fine
and yeah let me know how you get on next
video I will probably be putting up my
vlog of freshers I'm so excited
subscribe for that if you want to see
that then subscribe why not you know and
yeah see you then bye